Aim      To study global aortic circumferential strain in normal conditions and in atherosclerosis of various grades and to determine its role in prediction of structural and functional disorders of the thoracic aorta (TA) and coronary atherosclerosis using 2D speckle-tracking transesophageal echocardiography.Material and methods  182 patients with typical or probable angina were examined. The control group consisted of 11 healthy volunteers. TA was visualized along its entire length. The height of each atheroma was measured, and the total number of plaques in the TA was determined. Five stages of TA atherosclerosis were identified. In the descending TA, the global peak systolic circumferential strain (GCS, %) and the global peak systolic circumferential strain normalized to pulse arterial pressure (PAP) (GCS / PAP∙100) were calculated. All patients underwent coronary angiography. The number of coronary arteries (CAs) with &gt;50 % stenosis was determined, and the SYNTAX Score was calculated.Results TA atherosclerosis was not detected in the control group. Among 182 patients, stage 1-5 TA atherosclerosis was found in 23 (12.6 %), 103 (56.6 %), 43 (23.6 %), 7 (3.8 %), and 6 (3.4 %) cases respectively. GCS and GCS / PAD decreased as the ultrasound stage of TA atherosclerosis increased as compared with the control group: 9.2 % and 15.3 for the control group; stage 1, 5.6 % and 8.9 (p&lt;0.001); stage 2, 4.1 % and 5.9 (p&lt;0.001); stage 3, 4 % and 5.8 (p&lt;0.001); stage 4, 3.7 % and 4.9 (p&lt;0.01); and stage 5, 2.6 % and 3.3 (p&lt;0.01), respectively. ROC analysis showed that GCS ≥5.9 % (area under the curve, AUC, 0.94±0.03; p&lt;0.001) and GCS / PAD ≥11.4 (AUC, 0.97±0.02; p &lt;0.001) were predictors of intact TA. Also, GCS ≤4.85 % (AUC, 0.82±0.04; p&lt;0.001) and GCS / PAD ≤8.06 (AUC, 0.87±0.03; p&lt;0.001) were predictors of hemodynamically significant TA atherosclerosis (stages 3-5). GCS ≤4.05 % (AUC, 0.62±0.04; p=0.007) and GCS / PAD ≤5.95 (AUC, 0.61±0.04; p=0.018) were predictors of hemodynamically significant (&gt;50 %) stenosing atherosclerosis of at least one CA. Furthermore, GCS ≤3.75 % (AUC, 0.67±0.07; p=0.039) and GCS / PAD ≤5.15 (AUC, 0.64±0.07; p=0.045) were predictors of severe and advanced coronary atherosclerosis (SYNTAX Score ≥22).Conclusion      GCS and GCS / PAD are new diagnostic markers of structural and functional disorders of TA in atherosclerosis of various grades. GCS and GCS / PAD are independent predictors of high-grade TA atherosclerosis (stages 3-5) with GCS / PAD demonstrating the highest level of significance. GCS and GCS / PAD are non-invasive predictors of severe and advanced CA atherosclerosis.
Aim    To study the relationship of blood serum concentration of endocan with indexes of apoptosis and clinical and instrumental characteristics of patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD).Material and methods    The study included 176 subjects (105 men and 71 women). 150 of them were diagnosed with IHD and 26 were healthy volunteers. Anthropometric measurements, coronary angiography, echocardiography, duplex ultrasound scanning of extracranial parts of the brachiocephalic arteries were performed for all patients. Concentrations of endocan (ng / ml), glucose (mmol / l), and apoptotic markers Bcl-2 (ng / ml), Bax (ng / ml), Bcl-2 / Bax, TRAIL (pg / ml), and p53 (ng / ml) were measured in blood serum. Patients were divided into groups based on their SYNTAX scores: group 1 with moderate atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries (CA) (score &lt; 22, 78 patients); group 2 with severe CA atherosclerosis (score 23-32, 37 patients); and group 3 with extremely severe CA lesions (score &gt;33, 35 patients). The control group consisted of healthy volunteers (26 subjects). All groups were age- and sex-matched. Differences were considered statistically significant at p&lt;0.05.Results    A correlation was found between endocan concentration and IHD severity (r=0.32, p&lt;0.001). In group 1, the median endocan concentration was 14.57 ng / ml [8.21; 23.66], in group 2, 19.34 ng / ml [8.425; 26.645], in group 3, 32.13 ng / ml [18.2; 39.12], and in the control group, 6.92 ng / ml [4.62; 9.18]. Correlations of varying strength and significance were observed between the endocan concentration and a number of clinical and instrumental characteristics. Endocan concentrations significantly differed in groups of patients with multifocal atherosclerosis (p&lt;0.01), angina pectoris (p&lt;0.01), a history of myocardial infarction (p&lt;0.001), and obesity (p&lt;0.05) from patients without these signs. Also, a correlation was found between serum endocan concentration and apoptotic markers: TRAIL (r= -0.448, p&lt;0.001); BCL-2 (r= -0.552, p&lt;0.001), Bax (r= -0.519, p&lt;0.001), Bcl-2 / Bax (r= -0.576, p&lt;0.001) and p53 (r= -0.520, p &lt;0.001).Conclusion    The study demonstrated a potential role of endocan as a promising biomarker for risk stratification, prognosis and therapeutic monitoring of IHD patients.
Myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA) has several possible underlying causes, including coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD). Early cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) is recommended, however cannot provide a diagnosis in 25% of cases. Quantitative stress CMR perfusion mapping can identify CMD, however it is unknown if CMD is present during long-term follow-up of MINOCA patients. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate presence of CMD during long-term follow-up in MINOCA patients with an initial normal CMR scan. MINOCA patients from the second Stockholm myocardial infarction with normal coronaries study (SMINC-2), with a normal CMR scan at median 3 days after hospitalization were investigated with comprehensive CMR including stress perfusion mapping a median of 5 years after the index event, together with age- and sex-matched volunteers without symptomatic ischemic heart disease. Cardiovascular risk factors, medication and symptoms of myocardial ischemia measured by the Seattle Angina Questionnaire 7 (SAQ-7), were registered. In total, 15 patients with MINOCA and an initial normal CMR scan (59 ± 7 years old, 60% female), and 15 age- and sex-matched volunteers, underwent CMR. Patients with MINOCA and an initial normal CMR scan had lower global stress perfusion compared to volunteers (2.83 ± 1.8 vs 3.53 ± 0.7 ml/min/g, p = 0.02). There were no differences in other CMR parameters, hemodynamic parameters, or cardiovascular risk factors, except for more frequent use of statins in the MINOCA patient group compared to volunteers. In conclusion, global stress perfusion is lower in MINOCA patients during follow-up, compared to age- and sex-matched volunteers, suggesting that CMD may be a possible pathophysiological mechanism in MINOCA.Clinical Trial Registration: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02318498. Registered 2014-12-17.
Unhealthy lifestyle and diet may contribute to the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD), but limited evidence exists regarding the association between sleep patterns, oxidative stress-related exposures to diet and lifestyle, and CVD risk.
Coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) imaging is used to diagnose patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). A novel artificial-intelligence-guided quantitative computed tomography ischemia algorithm (AI-QCTischemia) aims to identify myocardial ischemia directly from CTA images and may be helpful to improve risk stratification. The aims were 1) the prognostic value of AI-QCTischemia among symptomatic patients with suspected CAD entering diagnostic imaging with coronary CTA, and 2) the prognostic value of AI-QCTischemia separately among patients with no/non-obstructive CAD (≤50% visual diameter stenosis) and obstructive CAD (>50% visual diameter stenosis).
To find out the prevalence of CYP2C19*2 genetic polymorphism in ischaemic heart disease patients, and to determine its relation with clopidogrel resistance in different genotype groups.
This study examines how Long COVID, chronic conditions, and work outcomes affect the general workforce.
Revascularization of chronic total occlusions (CTO) is currently one of the most complex procedures in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), requiring the use of specific devices and a high level of experience to obtain good results. Once the clinical indication for extensive ischemia or angina uncontrolled with medical treatment has been established, the decision to perform coronary intervention is not simple, since this procedure has a higher rate of complications than non-PCI percutaneous intervention, higher ionizing radiation doses and a lower success rate. However, CTO revascularization has been shown to be helpful in symptomatic improvement of angina, reduction of ischemic burden, or improvement of ejection fraction. The aim of this work is to determine whether a model developed using deep learning techniques, and trained with angiography images, can better predict the likelihood of a successful revascularization procedure for a patient with a chronic total occlusion (CTO) lesion in their coronary artery (measured as procedure success and the duration of time during which X-ray imaging technology is used to perform a medical procedure) than the scales traditionally used. As a preliminary approach, patients with right coronary artery CTO will be included since they present standard angiographic projections that are performed in all patients and present less technical variability (duration, projection angle, image similarity) among them.The ultimate objective is to develop a predictive model to help the clinician in the decision to intervene and to analyze the performance in terms of predicting the success of the technique for the revascularization of chronic occlusions.Clinical Relevance- The development of a deep learning model based on the angiography images could potentially overcome the gold standard and help interventional cardiologists in the treatment decision for percutaneous coronary intervention, maximizing the success rate of coronary intervention.
Coronary cameral fistula (CCF) is defined as an abnormal connection between the coronary artery and any cardiac chamber. It usually appears due to abnormal embryogenesis and represents less than 1% of the population. Most CCF cases are asymptomatic, however large CCFs may cause symptoms and complications. We present a case of a young female with symptomatic CCF suspected on echocardiography and confirmed by computed tomography coronary angiography. She was successfully treated surgically with total improvement of symptoms.
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is a relatively rare condition affecting predominantly young adults, with a prevalence of female sex. The best management of SCAD is still unclear and not adequately evidence-based both in the acute phase but especially over the long-term. We therefore aimed to evaluate the impact of medical therapy usually adopted for coronary artery disease on long-term outcome in SCAD patients.
Myocardial bridging is congenital anomaly characterized by segment of epicardial coronary arteries passing through the myocardium. Various ischemic conditions are related with this pathology. We report a case of myocardial bridging that was complicated with acute anterior myocardial infarction and a review of the literature. The patient was treated successfully with coronary bypass graft surgery after unsuccessful percutaneous intervention.
Aim      To evaluate 5-year results of the HREVS (Hybrid REvascularization Versus Standarts) study.Material and methods  The study included 155 consecutive patients with multivessel coronary artery disease who were randomized into 3 groups: coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) (n=50), hybrid coronary revascularization (HCR) (n=52) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (n=53) according to the consensus of the cardiology team on the technical and clinical feasibility of each of the three coronary revascularization strategies. The primary endpoint of the study was residual ischemia 12 months after revascularization according to data of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Secondary endpoints were major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) over 5 years of follow-up, which included all-cause death, myocardial infarction, stroke, and clinically determined repeat myocardial revascularization.Results Baseline characteristics of patients did not differ between study groups. Median residual ischemia determined by SPECT data after 12 months was not statistically significantly different in the CABG, HCR and PCI groups: 6.7 [4.6; 8.8]%, 6.4 [4.3; 8.5]% and 7.9 [5.9; 9.8]%, respectively (p=0.45). Mean follow-up period was 76.5 months (at least 60 months). There were no statistically significant differences in all-cause mortality between the CABG, HCR and PCI groups, 10.6, 12.8 and 8.2 %, respectively (p=0.23). Statistically significant differences between the groups of CABG, HCR and PCI in the incidence of myocardial infarction (12.8; 8.5 and 16.3 %; p=0.12), stroke (4.2; 6.4 and 10.2 % ; p=0.13), repeat revascularization for clinical indications (23.4; 23.4 and 34.7 %; p=0.11) were not observed either. However, the cumulative 5-year MACCE value was similar in the HCR group and the CABG group but significantly lower than in the PCI group (51.1, 51.1 and 69.4 %, respectively; p = 0.03).Conclusion      HCR that combines advantages of PCI and CABG is a promising strategy for coronary revascularization in multivessel coronary artery disease. HCR demonstrates satisfactory long-term results comparable to those of CABG but superior to PCI. To confirm the safety and efficacy of HCR, a large multicenter study is required that would have a sufficient power to evaluate clinical endpoints.
Aim    To determine clinical and laboratory parameters associated with in-hospital mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction and to develop a multifactorial prognostic model of in-hospital mortality.Material and methods    This was a study based on the 2019-2020 Registry of acute coronary syndrome of the Tyumen Cardiology Research Center, a branch of the Tomsk National Research Medical Center. The study included 477 patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 617 patients with non-ST segment elevation AMI, and 26 patients with unspecified AMI. In-hospital mortality was 6.0 % (n=67). Clinical and laboratory parameters were assessed on the day of admission. The separation power of indicators associated with in-hospital mortality was determined using a ROC analysis. The data array of each quantitative parameter was converted into a binary variable according to the obtained cut-off thresholds, followed by creation of a multifactorial model for predicting in-hospital mortality using a stepwise analysis with backward inclusion (Wald). The null hypothesis was rejected at p&lt;0.05.Results    The multivariate model for prediction of in-hospital mortality included age (cut-off, 72 years), OR 3.0 (95 % CI: 1.5-5.6); modified shock index (cut-off threshold, 0.87), OR 1.5 (95 % CI: 1.1-2.0); creatine phosphokinase-MB (cut-off threshold, 32.8 U / L), OR 4.1 (95 % CI: 2.2-7.7); hemoglobin (121.5 g / l), OR 1.7 (95 % CI: 1.2-2.3); leukocytes (11.5×109 / l), OR 1.9 (95 % CI: 1.3-2.6); glomerular filtration rate (60.9 ml / min), OR 1.7 (95 % CI: 1.2-2.2); left ventricular ejection fraction (42.5 %), OR 4.1 (95 % CI: 2.0-8.3); and size of myocardial asynergy (32.5 %), OR 2.6 (95 % CI: 1.4-5.0).Conclusions    Independent predictors of in-hospital mortality in AMI are age, modified shock index, creatine phosphokinase-MB, peripheral blood leukocyte count, hemoglobin concentration, left ventricular ejection fraction, size of myocardial asynergy, and glomerular filtration rate. The in-hospital mortality model had a high predictive potential: AUC 0.930 (95 % CI: 0.905-0.954; p &lt;0.001) with a cutoff threshold of 0.15; sensitivity 0.851, and specificity 0.850.
Aim    To study the relationship of blood serum concentration of endocan with indexes of apoptosis and clinical and instrumental characteristics of patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD).Material and methods    The study included 176 subjects (105 men and 71 women). 150 of them were diagnosed with IHD and 26 were healthy volunteers. Anthropometric measurements, coronary angiography, echocardiography, duplex ultrasound scanning of extracranial parts of the brachiocephalic arteries were performed for all patients. Concentrations of endocan (ng / ml), glucose (mmol / l), and apoptotic markers Bcl-2 (ng / ml), Bax (ng / ml), Bcl-2 / Bax, TRAIL (pg / ml), and p53 (ng / ml) were measured in blood serum. Patients were divided into groups based on their SYNTAX scores: group 1 with moderate atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries (CA) (score &lt; 22, 78 patients); group 2 with severe CA atherosclerosis (score 23-32, 37 patients); and group 3 with extremely severe CA lesions (score &gt;33, 35 patients). The control group consisted of healthy volunteers (26 subjects). All groups were age- and sex-matched. Differences were considered statistically significant at p&lt;0.05.Results    A correlation was found between endocan concentration and IHD severity (r=0.32, p&lt;0.001). In group 1, the median endocan concentration was 14.57 ng / ml [8.21; 23.66], in group 2, 19.34 ng / ml [8.425; 26.645], in group 3, 32.13 ng / ml [18.2; 39.12], and in the control group, 6.92 ng / ml [4.62; 9.18]. Correlations of varying strength and significance were observed between the endocan concentration and a number of clinical and instrumental characteristics. Endocan concentrations significantly differed in groups of patients with multifocal atherosclerosis (p&lt;0.01), angina pectoris (p&lt;0.01), a history of myocardial infarction (p&lt;0.001), and obesity (p&lt;0.05) from patients without these signs. Also, a correlation was found between serum endocan concentration and apoptotic markers: TRAIL (r= -0.448, p&lt;0.001); BCL-2 (r= -0.552, p&lt;0.001), Bax (r= -0.519, p&lt;0.001), Bcl-2 / Bax (r= -0.576, p&lt;0.001) and p53 (r= -0.520, p &lt;0.001).Conclusion    The study demonstrated a potential role of endocan as a promising biomarker for risk stratification, prognosis and therapeutic monitoring of IHD patients.
Blow-out type left ventricular free wall rupture is a serious complication of acute myocardial infarction, that carries high hospital mortality rates and poor surgical outcome. We report the case of an 88-year-old woman who developed cardiac tamponade following percutaneous coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction. She was diagnosed with left ventricular free wall rupture, and rupture type was proved to be blow out after median sternotomy. To address this critical condition, we opted for the sutureless technique for its minimally invasive nature and ability to preserve left ventricular function. The patient was discharged from the hospital without any complications 22 days after surgery. Considering favorable, encouraging outcomes of this case, sutureless technique could be regarded as a viable option for blow-out type left ventricular free wall rupture.
This study focused on investigating the mechanism of the astragaloside IV-induced bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell exosome (AS-IV-MSC-exo)/microRNA(miR)-411/HIF-1α axis in affecting vascular neovascularization and protecting cardiac function in myocardial infarction (MI) mice. Exosomes (MSC-exo and AS-IV-MSC-exo) were separated by differential centrifugation and then characterized. MI mouse models were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation. Echocardiography was used to evaluate cardiac function. HE staining and Masson staining were performed to observe myocardial histopathology. Capillary density in the myocardium via immunohistochemistry and quantified the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) via RT-qPCR. The expression of miR-411 and HIF-1α was tested by RT-qPCR and western blot and the targeting relationship of miR-411 and HIF-1α was verified by bioinformatics website and dual luciferase reporter gene assay. Exosomes with lipid bi-layer membrane structure, expressing exosomal surface marker proteins, and being taken up by cardiomyocytes could be successfully isolated utilizing ultracentrifugation. Intramyocardial injection of MSC-exo could restore cardiac function, decrease myocardial pathological changes and collagen deposition, and promote neovascularization in MI mice; the effect of AS-IV-MSC-exo was more significant. The ability of AS-IV-MSC-exo to restore cardiac function, lower myocardial pathological changes and collagen deposition, and promote neovascularization in MI mice was diminished when miR-411 expression in AS-IV-MSC-exo was reduced. Mechanistically, miR-411 was found to target and inhibit HIF-1α expression. Overexpression of HIF-1α impaired the impact of AS-IV-MSC-exo on improving cardiac function and promoting neovascularization in MI mice. AS-IV-MSC-exo improves cardiac function and promoted neovascularization via the miR-411/HIF-1α axis, thereby ameliorating MI.
Hispanic patients disproportionally suffer from disparities in care delivery in the setting of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). More specifically, Hispanic patients have higher 30-day readmission rates post-AMI and are less likely to be referred to cardiac rehab. Because of the challenges Hispanic patients face with post-AMI care, the Hispanic Acute Myocardial Infarction Discharge Intervention Study (HAMIDI) was launched to provide a culturally sensitive discharge framework to improve readmission and mortality rates in this population. Patients enrolled in this study participate in a comprehensive post-discharge program involving follow-up with a Spanish-speaking cardiologist, a two-part educational virtual group visit program, and access to support throughout the study. During the initial year of the study, 35 patients enrolled and successfully participated in the program. This case study reviews the implementation process, initial outcomes, challenges, and future plans of the program.
The clinical benefits of transcatheter edge to edge mitral valve repair have been well established in patients with heart failure and severe mitral regurgitation (MR) who have prohibitive surgical risk. In March of 2019, the FDA approved the MitraClip for treatment of selected patients with HF and severe secondary MR. However, the relative outcomes of patients with HFrEF and HFpEF treated with MitraClip are largely unknown. We therefore sought to investigate the incidence and characteristics of in-hospital mortality in patients with HFpEF and HFrEF following MitraClip.
To investigate the association between pericoronary adipose tissue (PCAT) attenuation (PCATA) and outcomes of chronic total occlusion (CTO) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and to establish a clinical model that can be easily generalised to predict the outcomes of PCI-CTO.
Previous observational studies have documented an inverse association of birthweight with myocardial infarction (MI) but a positive association with atrial fibrillation (AF). However, the causality of these associations and the underlying mediating pathways remain unclear. We aimed to investigate the causal effects of birthweight, incorporating both fetal and maternal genetic effects, on MI and AF, and identify potential mediators in their respective pathways.
Iron deficiency (ID) is common in patients with heart failure (HF) and is reportedly associated with exercise intolerance and impaired quality of life. Iron supplementation therapy in HF patients with ID improves exercise capacity. Conversely, protective roles of iron depletion in the development of diabetes mellitus (DM) and its complications have been proposed. This study aimed to determine the impact of ID on physical function in HF patients with and without DM.
Iron deficiency (ID) in patients with heart failure (HF) is a factor for unfavorable course and prognosis of the disease. The significance of ID in the diagnosis and treatment of HF has previously been demonstrated by multiple studies and meta-analyses. Therapy for ID in patients with HF is one of the most relevant and discussed issues. The use of intravenous iron medicinal products for the treatment of ID is currently being actively studied in patients of various categories; attempts are being made to specify the indications for use to produce the greatest effect on the prognosis and quality of life of HF patients.
Aim      To assess the tolerability of an individualized physical rehabilitation program (PRP) in inotrope-dependent patients with end-stage chronic heart failure (CHF).Material and methods  This prospective randomized study included 120 men aged 18-65 years with left ventricular ejection fraction ≤30 % and blood pressure ≥90 / 60 mm Hg. Patients who have received dobutamine or dopamine for ≥2 weeks were randomized into two groups: group 1, 40 patients who participated in the PRP and group 2, 40 patients who did not participate in the PRP. Group 3 included 40 patients without inotropic support who participated in the PRP.Results Patients of groups 1 and 3 attended &gt;80 % of the scheduled classes without developing life-threatening adverse events (AEs) associated with exercise (E). After 6 months of the study, the exercising patients achieved a comparable (average) E intensity: 44 [35; 50]% and 45 [40;52]% of heart rate reserve and Borg scale scores 14 [12; 14] and 13 [11; 14] in groups 1 and 3, respectively (p&gt;0.05). Initially, after 3 and 6 months at the peak of physical activity in groups 1 and 3, there was no decrease in arterial blood oxygen saturation according to pulse oximetry (SpO2) &lt;93 %. At baseline, lactate levels in central venous blood at rest were normal in all groups. After 6 months, the lactate concentration was 1.1 mmol / l in group 1, 2.3 mmol / l in group 2, and 1.4 mmol / l in group 3 (р1-2=0.005; p2-3=0.008, respectively). At the E peak at baseline, after 3 and 6 months, comparable increases in lactate not exceeding 3 mmol / l were detected in groups 1 and 3.Conclusion      The study allowed assessment of the tolerability of individualized PRP performed at the aerobic level of energy supply, in inotropic-dependent patients with CHF. Individualized 6-month PRP in inotropic-dependent patients with end-stage CHF, provided safety criteria are met, is well tolerated and does not increase the number of AEs associated with CHF and physical rehabilitation (PR). Continued inotropic support with dopamine or dobutamine should not be considered as a contraindication to PR in patients with CHF in the absence of E intolerance or life-threatening AEs.
The clinical benefits of transcatheter edge to edge mitral valve repair have been well established in patients with heart failure and severe mitral regurgitation (MR) who have prohibitive surgical risk. In March of 2019, the FDA approved the MitraClip for treatment of selected patients with HF and severe secondary MR. However, the relative outcomes of patients with HFrEF and HFpEF treated with MitraClip are largely unknown. We therefore sought to investigate the incidence and characteristics of in-hospital mortality in patients with HFpEF and HFrEF following MitraClip.
The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has had an enormous impact on our societies. Moreover, the disease's extensive and sustained symptoms are now becoming a nonnegligible medical challenge. In this respect, data indicate that heart failure is one of the most common readmission diagnoses among COVID-19 patients.
Prescribed fires often have ecological benefits, but their environmental health risks have been infrequently studied. We investigated associations between residing near a prescribed fire, wildfire smoke exposure, and heart failure (HF) patients' hospital utilization.
This study aimed to identify and select age-related diseases (ARDs) in Korea, which is about to have a super-aged society, and to elucidate patterns in their incidence rates.
We define a "flagship hospital" as the largest academic hospital within a hospital referral region and a "flagship system" as a system that contains a flagship hospital and its affiliates. It is not known if patients admitted to an affiliate hospital, and not to its main flagship hospital, have better outcomes than those admitted to a hospital outside the flagship system but within the same hospital referral region.
The aim of this study was to compare the therapeutic effects of non-navigated freehand minimally invasive aspiration and conservative medical care in patients with deep supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
Implantable cardiac monitors (ICMs) primarily use R-R intervals in subcutaneous electrocardiograms (ECGs) to detect arrhythmias. Therefore, reliable detection of R-wave amplitude by an ICM is vital. Since ICMs detect subcutaneous ECGs, the impact of the implantation depth should be assessed.
A healthy man in his 50s was hospitalised after presenting with chest pain and dyspnoea. An echocardiogram revealed asymmetrical septal hypertrophy, leading to a diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Due to progressive conduction abnormalities during his hospitalisation, further evaluation was performed. Cardiac MRI revealed dense late gadolinium enhancement of the septum in the area of hypertrophy. Additionally, fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography demonstrated increased uptake within the same region, suggestive of active inflammation. Subsequent endomyocardial biopsy showed non-caseating granulomatous inflammation, consistent with cardiac sarcoidosis. Treatment with prednisone and methotrexate was initiated, and an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator was placed following thorough risk stratification. This case highlights the importance of multimodality imaging and the pursuit of a tissue diagnosis in the evaluation of cardiomyopathy.
Several novel technologies allowing catheter ablation (CA) with a favorable safety/efficacy profile have been recently developed, but not yet extensively clinically tested in the setting of ventricular tachycardia CA.
Early identification of atrial fibrillation (AF) can reduce the risk of stroke, heart failure, and other serious cardiovascular outcomes. However, paroxysmal AF may not be detected even after a two-week continuous monitoring period. We developed a model to quantify the risk of near-term AF in a two-week period, based on AF-free ECG intervals of up to 24 h from 459,889 patch-based ambulatory single-lead ECG (modified lead II) recordings of up to 14 days. A deep learning model was used to integrate ECG morphology data with demographic and heart rhythm features toward AF prediction. Observing a 1-day AF-free ECG recording, the model with deep learning features produced the most accurate prediction of near-term AF with an area under the curve AUC = 0.80 (95% confidence interval, CI = 0.79-0.81), significantly improving discrimination compared to demographic metrics alone (AUC 0.67; CI = 0.66-0.68). Our model was able to predict incident AF over a two-week time frame with high discrimination, based on AF-free single-lead ECG recordings of various lengths. Application of the model may enable a digital strategy for improving diagnostic capture of AF by risk stratifying individuals with AF-negative ambulatory monitoring for prolonged or recurrent monitoring, potentially leading to more rapid initiation of treatment.
In view of the high incidence of malignant diseases such as malignant arrhythmias in the elderly population, accidental injuries such as falls, and the problem of no witnesses when danger occurs, the study developed a human vital signs and body posture monitoring and positioning alarm system. Through the collection and analysis of electrocardiogram (ECG), respiration (RESP) and acceleration (ACC) signals, the system monitors human vital signs and body posture in real time, automatically judges critical states such as malignant arrhythmias and accidental falls on the local device side, and then issues alarm information, opens the positioning function, and uploads physiological information and patient location information through 4G communication. Experiments have shown that the system can accurately determine the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation and falls, and issue position and alarm information.
Among KCNH2 missense loss of function (LOF) variants, homozygosity -at any position in the Kv11.1/hERG channel - is very rare and generally leads to intrauterine death, while heterozygous variants in the pore are responsible for severe Type 2 long-QT syndrome (LQTS). We report a novel homozygous p.Gly603Ser missense variant in the pore of Kv11.1/hERG (KCNH2 c.1807G>A) discovered in the context of a severe LQTS.
Over the last three decades, what is referred to as Brugada syndrome (BrS) has developed from a clinical observation of initially a few cases of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in the absence of structural heart disease with ECG signs of "atypical right bundle brunch block" to a predominantly electrocardiographic, and to a lesser extent genetic, diagnosis. Today, BrS is diagnosed in patients without overt structural heart disease and a spontaneous Brugada type 1 ECG pattern regardless of symptoms. The diagnosis of BrS is less clear in those with an only transient or drug-induced type 1 Brugada pattern, but should be considered in the presence of an arrhythmic syncope, family history of BrS, or family history of sudden death. In addition to survived cardiac arrest, syncope is probably the single most decisive risk marker for future arrhythmias. For asymptomatic BrS, risk stratification remains challenging. General recommendations to lower the risk in BrS include avoidance of drugs/agents known to induce and/or increase right precordial ST-segment elevation, including treatment of fever with antipyretic drugs. Several ECG markers that have been associated with an increased risk of SCD have been incorporated into a recently published risk score for BrS. The aim of this article is to provide an overview of the status of risk stratification and to illustrate open issues und gaps in evidence in BrS.
In the aftermath of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, we sought to explore the causal association between COVID-19 and 17 prevalent post-COVID-19 syndrome (PCS) symptoms using Mendelian randomisation (MR) methodology.
Atrioventricular (AV) block in pregnancy is rare, but it is a serious arrhythmia that needs to be carefully managed in pregnancy. However, as of now, there are no clear guidelines or consensus for intrapartum management. Most of the time, an intrapartum AV block is secondary to hypervagatonic sinus node dysfunction and is treated conservatively. Hypervagatonic sinus node dysfunction has a heterogeneous presentation of AV block, and pseudo-Mobitz type II in labor is rarely reported. We report a case of pseudo-Mobitz type II AV block during pregnancy due to labor pain, which is successfully managed conservatively.
Oral anticoagulants (OACs) are the cornerstone of stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF), but prescribing decisions in older people are complicated. Clinicians must assess the net clinical benefit of OAC in the context of multiple chronic conditions, polypharmacy, frailty and life expectancy. The under-representation of high-risk, older adult sub-populations in clinical trials presents the challenge of choosing the right OAC, where a 'one-size-fits-all' approach cannot be taken.
Aim    To identify independent predictors associated with in-hospital atrial fibrillation (AF) following coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).Material and methods     The study included 80 patients (88.75 % men) who had elective CABG surgery at the Sklifosovsky Research Institute of Emergency Medicine. Based on the development of AF during the hospital stage of treatment (up to 10 days after CABG surgery), patients were divided into two groups. The group with AF consisted of 19 patients, and the group without AF consisted of 61 patients. All patients underwent electrocardiography (ECG), transthoracic echocardiography (EchoCG) with calculation of the left ventricular (LV) geometry type, and assessment of operational indexes. During surgery, biopsy of a part of the right atrial (RA) appendage was taken from 61 patients to verify the severity of myocardial fibrosis on a four-score scale where 0 is no interstitial fibrosis, 1 is slight fibrosis, 2 is moderate fibrosis, and 3 is severe fibrosis.Results    All included patients had a low risk of developing postoperative complications according to the EuroSCORE II scale. According to EchoCG data, patients with AF had significantly higher ratios of left ventricular myocardial mass to body surface area (LVMM / BSA) (p = 0.0006) and of left atrial volume to body surface area (LA volume / BSA), p = 0.008). The distribution of patients by type of LV geometry was as follows: in the group with AF, 52.63 % (n=10) of patients were diagnosed with concentric LV hypertrophy (LVH) whereas in the group without AF, the majority of patients (83.60 %, n=51) had normal LV geometry and concentric LV remodeling (LVR) (p&lt;0.0001). According to the results of histological study, patients of the AF group more frequently had moderate and severe interstitial fibrosis in the AF appendage (p = 0.003). After multivariate regression and ROC analysis, the predictive value remained for concentric LVH (p=0.002), LVMM / BSA ratio ≥97 g / m2 (p=0.006), LA volume / BSA ratio ≥ 34.4 ml / m2 (p=0.04), and for RA appendage interstitial fibrosis score ≥2 (p=0.004). Based on the identified predictors, a regression model was developed to predict the development of AF at the hospital stage after CABG (p&lt;0.0001). The sensitivity and specificity of the model were 86.67 % and 78.26 %, respectively.Conclusion    In patients at low perioperative risk, the LVMM / BSA ratio ≥97 g / m2, the LA volume ratio / BSA ≥34.4 ml / m2, a RA appendage interstitial fibrosis score ≥2, and the presence of LVH were independent predictors of the development of AF at the hospital stage after CABG operation.Conclusion In patients at low perioperative risk, a LVMM / BSA ratio ≥97 g / m2, a LA volume / BSA ratio ≥34.4 ml / m2, a RA appendage interstitial fibrosis score ≥2, and the presence of LVH were independent predictors of the development of AF at the hospital stage after CABG.
A rare case of isolated right atrial thrombus under anticoagulant therapy for atrial fibrillation is reported herein. The patient was an 81-year-old man undergoing anticoagulant therapy with oral warfarin for atrial fibrillation. During preoperative screening for eye surgery, echocardiography revealed a mobile mass in the right atrium, and emergency hospital admission was indicated. Excision of the right atrial thrombus was performed, and no residual thrombus was detected on postoperative imaging studies. This case was considered a good indication for surgical resection because of potential risk of fatal embolism.
Previous observational studies have documented an inverse association of birthweight with myocardial infarction (MI) but a positive association with atrial fibrillation (AF). However, the causality of these associations and the underlying mediating pathways remain unclear. We aimed to investigate the causal effects of birthweight, incorporating both fetal and maternal genetic effects, on MI and AF, and identify potential mediators in their respective pathways.
Single-shot pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) utilizing cryothermal energy is an effective and safe treatment for atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. A novel cryoballoon system, POLARx™, has been recently introduced. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy, safety, and biophysical parameters of PVI between the novel cryoballoon system, POLARx™, and the standard cryoballoon system, Arctic Front Advance Pro™ (AFA-Pro), in patients with paroxysmal AF.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is often accompanied by thyroid disease (THD). This study aimed to explore the relationship between THD and the occurrence of significant clinical outcomes in patients with AF. This post hoc analysis utilized data from the MISOAC-AF trial (NCT02941978), which enrolled hospitalized patients with AF. Patients were categorized based on their THD history into hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, or euthyroidism. Cox regression models were employed to calculate unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs). The primary outcomes of interest included all-cause mortality, cardiovascular death, and hospitalizations during the follow-up period. The study included 496 AF patients (mean age 73.09 ± 11.10 years) with available THD data, who were followed-up for a median duration of 31 months. Among them, 16 patients (3.2%) had hyperthyroidism, 141 (28.4%) had hypothyroidism, and 339 (68.4%) had no thyroid disease. Patients with hypothyroidism exhibited higher rates of hospitalization during follow-up (aHR: 1.57, 95% CI 1.12 to 2.20, p = 0.025) compared to the euthyroid group. Elevated levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) were correlated with an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality (aHR: 1.03, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.05, p = 0.007) and hospitalizations (aHR: 1.06, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.12, p = 0.03). Conversely, lower levels of triiodothyronine (T3) were associated with higher risks of all-cause mortality (aHR: 0.51, 95% CI 0.31 to 0.82, p = 0.006) and cardiovascular mortality (aHR: 0.42, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.77, p = 0.005). Among patients with AF, hypothyroidism was associated with increased hospitalizations. Furthermore, elevated TSH levels and decreased T3 levels were linked to higher cardiovascular and all-cause mortality risks, respectively.
Early identification of atrial fibrillation (AF) can reduce the risk of stroke, heart failure, and other serious cardiovascular outcomes. However, paroxysmal AF may not be detected even after a two-week continuous monitoring period. We developed a model to quantify the risk of near-term AF in a two-week period, based on AF-free ECG intervals of up to 24 h from 459,889 patch-based ambulatory single-lead ECG (modified lead II) recordings of up to 14 days. A deep learning model was used to integrate ECG morphology data with demographic and heart rhythm features toward AF prediction. Observing a 1-day AF-free ECG recording, the model with deep learning features produced the most accurate prediction of near-term AF with an area under the curve AUC = 0.80 (95% confidence interval, CI = 0.79-0.81), significantly improving discrimination compared to demographic metrics alone (AUC 0.67; CI = 0.66-0.68). Our model was able to predict incident AF over a two-week time frame with high discrimination, based on AF-free single-lead ECG recordings of various lengths. Application of the model may enable a digital strategy for improving diagnostic capture of AF by risk stratifying individuals with AF-negative ambulatory monitoring for prolonged or recurrent monitoring, potentially leading to more rapid initiation of treatment.
Utilization of oral anticoagulants for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) increased in the United States over the last decade. Whether this increase has been accompanied by any change in AF prevalence in AIS at the population level remains unknown. The aim of this study is to evaluate trends in AF prevalence in AIS hospitalizations in various age, sex and racial subgroups over the last decade.
Assessing the risk for non-cancer-related outcomes following lung cancer surgery is crucial for high-risk patients. This study examined non-cancer-related adverse events within one year after lung resection, emphasizing the role of resected lung volume and postoperative atrial fibrillation.
