<b>Purpose:</b> Influenza vaccination of person living with HIV (PLWH) is a powerful means to tackle severe clinical outcomes. Few data on two doses of influenza vaccine in PLWH are available.<b>Research Design:</b> To evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of two doses of vaccine as compared with single dose in PLWH, we searched Pubmed, Embase, and web of science databases for relevant articles (January 2009 to April 2023). Pooled SMD or RR and 95% CI were calculated.<b>Results:</b> A total of 2436 participants from 14 studies were included. Compared to single dose influenza vaccine regimen, the pooled RR of seroprotection and seroconversion for two doses of vaccines was 1.14 (95%CI: 1.08-1.21) and 1.25 (95%CI: 1.16-1.34), respectively; the SMD of GMT was 0.42 (95%CI: 0.35, 0.49). Regarding safety, the fever risk in PLWH receiving two doses of vaccine was 3.42 fold higher than that of single dose vaccine, and the risk of myalgia had a quarter reduction. No serious vaccine-related adverse events were reported.<b>Conclusions:</b> Collectively, two doses of the vaccine are associated with a better immunogenicity and an acceptable safety in PLWH. Two doses of the adjuvant vaccination might be a superior vaccination regimen.nation regimen.
Hepatitis A is a common cause of acute infectious hepatitis in children, transmitted through the faeco-oral route. Although mostly self-limiting, cholestasis is a rare but known complication of acute hepatitis A in children. This report presents an adolescent girl who developed cholestatic features following hepatitis A infection and successful treatment with oral steroid therapy. Prolonged cholestasis jaundice (PCJ) is a known manifestation of hepatitis A infection, characterised by prolonged fever, pruritus and jaundice. While the exact mechanisms causing PCJ are not fully understood, immunological-mediated responses could play a role. Treatment options for PCJ are limited, and there is no currently accepted standard of care. Steroids have shown promise in treating PCJ, as observed in this case and a few other reported cases. When other therapies fail to alleviate symptoms, corticosteroids should be considered as a potential treatment option. However, further studies are required to conclusively establish their efficacy.
The female mosquito is endowed with the responsibility of gene transfer from one generation to another through careful delivery of her eggs to an appropriate environment. To guarantee a successful reproduction process, female mosquitoes use an evaluative approach to select an oviposition site that will ensure that their progeny successfully hatch and develop from larvae to pupa to adult. Specific conditions must be met during oviposition site selection before gravid females deposit eggs, including but not limited to appropriate temperature, salinity, and pH; the presence of nutrition; and a low risk of predation. Mosquito species exhibit a remarkable diversity in their oviposition site selection behaviors. For instance, <i>Aedes aegypti</i>, which is a vector for Zika, dengue, yellow fever, and chikungunya viruses, prefers to lay its eggs in natural depressions (e.g., tree holes) or artificial containers. In contrast, other mosquito species, like <i>Anopheles</i>, gravitate toward more open water bodies. Understanding the oviposition preference behavior of the <i>Ae. aegypti</i> mosquito will facilitate the development of surveillance and control efforts to hinder the successful progression of this vector. Here, we present information on some of the known behaviors and preferences of <i>Ae. aegypti</i> during oviposition site selection, techniques to measure these preferences, and some open questions.
Listeriosis is caused by the bacterium, Listeria monocytogenes, and is a significant health concern because of high hospitalization and mortality rates. This study reports seven cases of pregnancy-associated listeriosis diagnosed with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry performed on infection-positive blood culture.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a human pathogen naturally present in wild rodents. In addition, LCMV is routinely used in immunology research as a model of viral infection in mice. The Armstrong common laboratory strain and the Clone-13 variant induce acute and chronic infections in mice, respectively. The frequent use of this virus in laboratory settings is associated with a risk of human infection for laboratory personnel. In contrast to LCMV Clone-13, few human laboratory infections with LCMV Armstrong have been reported, leading to a poor understanding of symptoms related to infection with this specific LCMV strain.
High-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) is a serious life-threatening disease that occurs after rapid ascent to high altitude; its main early-stage presentations include fatigue, headache, low-grade fever, dyspnea, and cough. X-ray and computed tomography (CT) images show pulmonary shadows and patches, which may be localized (initial right lung field predomination) or generalized to the bilateral lung base.
Teucrium hyrcanicum L. (family Lamiaceae) is widely distributed in the North and Northwest of Iran. It has been used in the form of tea, tonic, and tincture for the treatment of various diseases such as cough, rheumatism, and fever.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a prototypical autoinflammatory syndrome associated with phagocytic cell activation. Pyrin mutations are the genetic basis of this disease, and its expression has been shown in monocytes, granulocytes, dendritic cells, and synovial fibroblasts. Pyrin functions as a cytosolic pattern recognition receptor and forms a distinct pyrin inflammasome. The phagocyte-specific protein S100A12 is predominantly expressed in granulocytes and belongs to the group of damage associated molecular patterns (DAMP). S100A12 can be detected at massively elevated levels in the serum of FMF patients, even in clinically inactive disease. Whether this is crucial for FMF pathogenesis is as yet unknown, and we therefore investigated the mechanisms of S100A12 release from granulocytes of FMF patients presenting clinically inactive.
Peripancreatic tuberculosis (PTB) is a very rare variant of tuberculosis and its clinical and radiological findings are similar to those of pancreatic malignancy. Diagnosis of PTB is usually incidental and is made after surgical resection. We are presenting a male patient who had complaints of prolonged fever, significant weight loss and yellowish discolouration of eyes and dark-coloured urine. Investigations revealed that there was a pancreatic mass causing obstructive jaundice. However, the aetiology of the mass, whether tubercular or malignant, was not clear. Hence, the patient was planned for endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration cytology. Cytology and aspirate were sent for a cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test which revealed the presence of <i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis</i>, sensitive to rifampicin. The patient improved completely after treatment with antitubercular therapy.
Contrast-enhanced CT is the gold standard for the diagnosis of acute focal bacterial nephritis (AFBN). However, owing to radiation exposure and the possibility of contrast agent-induced side effects, contrast-enhanced CT is not always recommended for children. A paediatric patient presenting with a 1-week history of fever was admitted to our hospital. After a urine culture detected <i>Escherichia coli</i>, antimicrobials were administered; however, the fever had not resolved by the third day of hospitalisation. Renal diffusion-weighted MRI was performed and showed multiple wedge-shaped areas of high signal intensity in the right kidney. Additionally, the same site showed an area of low signal intensity in the apparent diffusion coefficient, and a diagnosis of AFBN with abscess was made. A chronic-phase technetium-99m-labelled dimercaptosuccinic acid renal scintigraphy was performed, but there was no renal scarring. MRI may be a more suitable tool for diagnosing AFBN given no radiation exposure.
A significant percentage of patients who survived the Coronavirus Infection Disease 2019 (COVID-19) showed persistent general and respiratory symptoms even months after recovery. This condition, called Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 or Long-Covid syndrome (LCS), has been described also in children with positive history for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Little is known about the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this syndrome. The aim of this study was to investigate any difference between children with LCS and asymptomatic peers with previous COVID-19 in terms of lung function and lung ultrasound (LUS) patterns. Secondly, we tested associations between lung function abnormalities and LUS findings with Long-Covid.
High-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) is a serious life-threatening disease that occurs after rapid ascent to high altitude; its main early-stage presentations include fatigue, headache, low-grade fever, dyspnea, and cough. X-ray and computed tomography (CT) images show pulmonary shadows and patches, which may be localized (initial right lung field predomination) or generalized to the bilateral lung base.
Pertussis and influenza cause significant morbidity and mortality in pregnancy and the neonatal period. Maternal vaccination in pregnancy would reduce harm, but low vaccine uptake is a concern. This scoping review aimed to understand the reasons for, and approaches, to non-uptake of pertussis and influenza vaccinations in pregnant women in the UK and Ireland.
Teucrium hyrcanicum L. (family Lamiaceae) is widely distributed in the North and Northwest of Iran. It has been used in the form of tea, tonic, and tincture for the treatment of various diseases such as cough, rheumatism, and fever.
Traditionally, the clinical evaluation of respiratory diseases was pulmonary function testing, which can be used for the detection of severity and prognosis through pulmonary function parameters. However, this method is limited by the complex process, which is impossible for patients to monitor daily. In order to evaluate pulmonary function parameters conveniently with less time and location restrictions, cough sound is the substitute parameter. In this paper, 371 cough sounds segments from 150 individuals were separated into 309 and 62 as the training and test samples. Short-time Fourier transform (STFT) was applied to transform cough sound into spectrogram, and ResNet50 model was used to extract 2048-dimensional features. Through support vector regression (SVR) model with biological attributes, the data were regressed with pulmonary function parameters, FEV1, FEV1%, FEV1/FVC, FVC, FVC%, and the performance of this models was evaluated with fivefold cross-validation. Combines with deep learning and machine learning technologies, the better results in the case of small samples were achieved. Using the coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>), the ResNet50 + SVR model shows best performance in five basic pulmonary function parameters evaluation as FEV1(0.94), FEV1%(0.84), FEV1/FVC(0.68), FVC(0.92), and FVC%(0.72). This ResNet50 + SVR hybrid model shows excellent evaluation of pulmonary function parameters during coughing, making it possible to realize a simple and rapid evaluation for pneumonia patients. The technology implemented in this paper is beneficial in judge the patient's condition, realize early screening of respiratory diseases, evaluate postoperative disease changes and detect respiratory infectious diseases without time and location restrictions.
Background Coronaviruses are viral agents that commonly infect animals, but have the ability to cause respiratory illness in humans, exemplified by the ongoing novel coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19). Due to the sparse literature on the effects of COVID-19 on the respiratory system, and the possible development of persistent asthma-like symptoms after infection, this cross-sectional analysis was performed in order to compare the clinical and investigative parameters between post-COVID patients and asthmatic patients. Methods A retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted on patients with prior history of COVID-19 infection that presented to the pulmonology or respiratory outpatient clinics with asthma-like symptoms and were subsequently compared to known asthmatic patients with absent history of prior COVID-19 infection, in order to evaluate the degree of similarity between both cohorts. In this study, asthma-like symptoms were defined as: (i) cough, (ii) wheezing, (iii) chest tightness, and (iv) shortness of breath. Moreover, comparisons of investigative parameters were also performed, including (i) fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), (ii) serum immunoglobulin E (IgE), (iii) absolute eosinophil counts, and (iv) qualitative spirometry results. All statistical analyses were conducted via chi-squared testing for categorical variables, and independent t-test for continuous variables. Results In this study, there were a total of 76 patients included that conformed to the eligibility criteria, including 39 patients with post-COVID symptoms with absent history of asthma or other respiratory illnesses, and 37 patients with known asthma with absent history of prior COVID-19 infection or other respiratory illnesses. Overall, this study revealed the similarities between both cohorts with respect to the incidence of cough, chest tightness, and shortness of breath. Moreover, there were similarities between the serum IgE and spirometry results. However, there were differences within the complaint of wheeze, FeNO values, and eosinophil counts between both cohorts. The placement of post-COVID patients on bronchodilator therapy involving inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonists revealed improvement in all follow-up patients. Conclusion In conclusion, there was considerable similarity in the complaint of asthma-like symptoms after COVID-19 infection, associated with an improvement after the use of bronchodilator therapy, indicating the potential role of anti-asthma therapy (e.g., bronchodilator therapy) in managing post-COVID asthma-like symptoms. In order to validate our conclusion, further comprehensive studies with robust methodologies and larger sample populations are encouraged.
Pneumonia is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in children. This is especially true in resource poor regions lacking diagnostic facilities, bringing about the need for rapid diagnostic tests for pneumonia. Cough is a common symptom of acute respiratory diseases, including pneumonia, and the sound of cough can be indicative of the pathological variations caused by respiratory infections. As such, in this paper we study objective cough sound evaluation for differentiating between pneumonia and other acute respiratory diseases. We use a dataset of 491 cough sounds from 173 children diagnosed either as having pneumonia or other acute respiratory diseases. We extract features which describe the temporal, spectral, and cepstral characteristics of the cough sound. These features are combined with feature embeddings from a pretrained deep learning network and used to train a multilayer perceptron for classification. The proposed method achieves a sensitivity and specificity of 84% and 73% respectively in differentiating between pneumonia and other acute respiratory diseases using cough sounds alone.
The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection is fast becoming one of the most significant infections worldwide. Of all the causes of SARS-CoV-2 infection, airborne-droplet infection via coughing is the most common. Therefore, if predicting the onset of a cough and preventing infection were possible, it would have a globally positive impact. Here, we describe a new prediction and prevention system for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Usually, air is inhaled prior to coughing, and the cough, which contains droplets of the virus, then occurs during acute exhalation. Therefore, if we can predict the onset of a cough, we can prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2. At Tohoku University, a diagnosis system for evaluating swallowing motions and peripheral circulation has already been developed, and our prediction system can be integrated into this system. Using three-dimensional human body imaging, we developed a prediction system for preempting the onset of a cough. If we can predict the onset a cough, we can prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection, by decreasing the shower of virally active airborne droplets. Here, we describe the newly developed prediction and prevention system for SARS-CoV-2 infection that preempts the onset of a cough.Clinical Relevance- If predicting the onset of a cough and preventing infection were possible, it would have a globally positive impact. Here, we describe the newly developed prediction and prevention system for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Vanillin is a flavouring agent that is prohibited for use in infant food products with ages lower than 6 months. Excessive vanillin usage could lead to eating disorders, nausea, headache, and vomiting. Therefore, it is essential to control the contents of vanillin in food samples, especially in infant formula. Here, we developed a highly sensitive nanosensor for vanillin based on using green synthesized highly fluorescent (QY = 29.5%) N-doped carbon quantum dots (N-CQDs) as a turn-off fluorescent nanoprobe. The N-doped CQDs synthesis was adopted using citrus bulb squeeze extract and the commonly used fertilizer, urea, as substrates. After mixing with vanillin, the fluorescence of the N-CQDs was largely quenched in a vanillin concentration-dependent manner. The sensing conditions were optimized by quality-by-design using a two-level full factorial design (2<sup>2</sup> FFD). The N-doped CQDs could detect vanillin in the range 0.1-12.0 μg/ml with a limit of detection of 0.013 μg/ml. Next, a smartphone imaging-based assay combined with a UV chamber was adopted and applied for vanillin determination. This simple detection technique showed sensitivity similar to that of the conventional fluorimetric method. Both conventional and smartphone-based methods were successfully applied for the determination of vanillin in infant milk formula and biscuits and could detect real vanillin concentrations in the analyzed samples with high % recoveries (94.5% to 105.5%). At last, the biocompatibility of the newly synthesized N-CQDs was tested, and it was found to be an excellent candidate for cancer cell imaging.
To evaluate differences in emergency department (ED) utilization and quality of care for migraine in patients with rural and nonrural residences.
Chronic migraine, a highly disabling migraine subtype, affects nearly 2% of the general population. Understanding migraine chronification is vital for developing better treatment and prevention strategies. An important factor in the chronification of migraine is the overuse of acute headache medication. However, the mechanisms behind the transformation of episodic migraine to chronic migraine and vice versa have not yet been elucidated. We performed a longitudinal epigenome-wide association study to identify DNA methylation (DNAm) changes associated with treatment response in patients with chronic migraine and medication overuse as part of the Chronification and Reversibility of Migraine clinical trial. Blood was taken from patients with chronic migraine (n = 98) at baseline and after a 12-week medication withdrawal period. Treatment responders, patients with ≥ 50% reduction in monthly headache days (MHD), were compared with non-responders to identify DNAm changes associated with treatment response. Similarly, patients with ≥ 50% versus < 50% reduction in monthly migraine days (MMD) were compared.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a human pathogen naturally present in wild rodents. In addition, LCMV is routinely used in immunology research as a model of viral infection in mice. The Armstrong common laboratory strain and the Clone-13 variant induce acute and chronic infections in mice, respectively. The frequent use of this virus in laboratory settings is associated with a risk of human infection for laboratory personnel. In contrast to LCMV Clone-13, few human laboratory infections with LCMV Armstrong have been reported, leading to a poor understanding of symptoms related to infection with this specific LCMV strain.
Colorectal neoplasms are one of the deadliest diseases among all cancers worldwide. Thymoquinone (TQ) is a natural compound of Nigella sativa that has been used in traditional medicine against a variety of acute/chronic diseases such as asthma, bronchitis, rheumatism, headache, back pain, anorexia, amenorrhea, paralysis, inflammation, mental disability, eczema, obesity, infections, depression, dysentery, hypertension, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, hepatic, and renal disorders. This review aims to present a detailed report on the studies conducted on the anti-cancer properties of TQ against colorectal cancer, both in vitro and in vivo. TQ stands as a promising natural therapeutic agent that can enhance the efficacy of existing cancer treatments while minimizing the associated adverse effects. The combination of TQ with other anti-neoplastic agents promoted the efficacy of existing cancer treatments. Further research is needed to acquire a more comprehensive understanding of its exact molecular targets and pathways and maximize its clinical usefulness. These investigations may potentially aid in the development of novel techniques to combat drug resistance and surmount the obstacles presented by chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
High-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) is a serious life-threatening disease that occurs after rapid ascent to high altitude; its main early-stage presentations include fatigue, headache, low-grade fever, dyspnea, and cough. X-ray and computed tomography (CT) images show pulmonary shadows and patches, which may be localized (initial right lung field predomination) or generalized to the bilateral lung base.
Headache disorders are a global public health concern affecting diverse populations. This review examines headache service organizations in low-, middle-, and high-income countries. It addresses global challenges in pharmacological headache treatment, with a focus on safety, tolerability, reproductive and child health, and outlines disparities in accessing innovative treatments worldwide.
Cervicogenic headache is an often observed secondary headache in clinical settings, with patients who endure prolonged and persistent pain being particularly susceptible to mood changes. Currently, the Mulligan is one of the effective methods for CEH. However, there is a lack of evaluation about the strength and frequency of headaches, as well as the assessment of pain-induced emotions, in individuals with CEH using this particular procedure. Herein, we aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of the Mulligan maneuver from a multidimensional perspective of pain intensity and mood. A total of forty patients diagnosed with CEH who satisfied the specified inclusion criteria were recruited and allocated randomly into two groups: the control group and the treatment group, with each group consisting of twenty cases. The control group received health education, while the treatment group received the Mulligan maneuver once daily over a course of 10 treatment sessions.The clinical outcome of patients with CEH in two groups was assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), and Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD). Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was employed to examine variations in brain function activities between the two CEH groups. Brain regions showing differences were identified as regions of interest and subsequently correlated with clinical behavioral measures using Pearson's correlation analysis. The differences in VAS, HAMA and HAMD between the two groups of CEH patients were also statistically significant. The brain regions that showed differences in the ReHo scores between the two groups of CEH patients included the left cerebellum, the frontal gyrus, and the middle temporal gyrus. There was a positive correlation between the left frontal gyrus and VAS, HAMA and HAMD. The left middle temporal gyrus had a negative correlation with VAS, HAMA, and HAMD and the left cerebellum had a positive correlation with VAS correlation. The Mulligan maneuver may improve pain levels and have a moderating effect on pain-related negative emotions by regulating the function of relevant brain regions in CEH patients.
The journey for a patient with a brain tumor and their loved ones can be extremely challenging due to the high burden of physical symptoms and the emotional distress caused by the diagnosis. Optimizing quality of life by addressing symptoms and reducing this emotional distress can improve treatment tolerance and outcomes and alleviate care partner distress and burden. Symptoms in patients with central nervous system (CNS) tumors can vary in onset and intensity, ranging from headaches, seizures, and focal weakness to emotional distress and cognitive dysfunction. Additionally, care partners may demonstrate distress due to the high burden of care and need appropriate support structures and access to resources to alleviate this stress. Evidence-based recommendations are unfortunately limited given the lack of high-quality research in this area, but patients living with CNS tumors and their loved ones can benefit from early and routine symptom identification and management, compassionate and transparent communication, and practical guidance for the future. These principles are part of palliative care, a field of medicine focused on alleviating suffering in patients with serious, chronic illness. Clinicians involved in the care of patients with CNS tumors must be educated in these important primary palliative care principles. This article focuses on key symptom management, strategies for high-quality communication, a discussion of advance care planning, and an overview of end-of-life care.
Headache disorders are common, debilitating health problems. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is recommended but rarely easily available. With the use of the internet and communication technologies among youth and young adults, these individuals could be self-trained in CBT skills. There is an increasing number of internet-based interventions for headaches, but there has been little research into the usability of these interventions because evaluating usability across the intervention development life cycle is costly. We developed an internet-based CBT program, the Specialized Program for Headache Reduction (SPHERE). While developing it, we aimed to improve SPHERE through rapid usability testing cycles.
The objective of this study was to assess the clinical significance of the Bow and Lean Test (BLT) for the diagnosis of different variants of vertical canal Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV). BLT is commonly used for diagnoses of lateral semicircular canal (LSC) BPPV. However, vertical nystagmus in the BLT may indicate the presence of other variants such as PSC-BPPV.
Primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS) is an autoimmune connective tissue disorder with multisystem manifestations. We here report a previously healthy woman who presented with autonomic dysfunction in the form of severe dizziness without any apparent sensory neuropathy. Detailed history and examination revealed the signs and symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome such as constipation and dry eyes and mouth, following which anti-SSA and SSB antibodies were found to be positive. Finally, a diagnosis of pSS was established after ruling out all the other causes of autonomic dysfunction in addition to the clinical and laboratory evidence. The patient was treated with the maximum doses of midodrine and fludrocortisone, yet no progress was noticed. Hence, a trial of steroids was started and she showed a significant clinical improvement. Our patient presented with pure autonomic failure associated with Sjogren's syndrome, making it an extremely rare entity.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a human pathogen naturally present in wild rodents. In addition, LCMV is routinely used in immunology research as a model of viral infection in mice. The Armstrong common laboratory strain and the Clone-13 variant induce acute and chronic infections in mice, respectively. The frequent use of this virus in laboratory settings is associated with a risk of human infection for laboratory personnel. In contrast to LCMV Clone-13, few human laboratory infections with LCMV Armstrong have been reported, leading to a poor understanding of symptoms related to infection with this specific LCMV strain.
This work utilises the strength of state space based dynamic modelling and the ability of machine learning based segmentation of SRM standard descriptors to reach superior diagnostic capabilities. Dynamic modelling ensured vHIT input-output characteristics generated SRM standard descriptors, which were consequently used in formation of ML classification models.The best ML model was Linear SVM when built on left and right sided data with the SRM standard descriptors: rise time, settling time, settling minimum, settling maximum, overshoot and undershoot. The model was able to classify individuals to patient or control groups with an accuracy of 100% and a sensitivity and specificity of 1.Clinical Relevance- Dizziness is one of the most common presentations to family physicians and emergency departments. It is associated with significant medical complications such as falls as well as economic costs to both the individual and the community. Vestibular diseases comprise the bulk of dizzy disorders and are often associated with dysfunction of the vestibular or inner ear balance apparatus. This is most commonly the result of hypo-function of the semi-circular canals. Clinically, the most commonly employed objective test of semicircular function is the video Head Impulse Test (vHIT). Here we provide a machine learning approach to a more comprehensible and accurate interpretation of the results obtained by the vHIT to more robustly establish the presence and severity of VOR dysfunction, and ultimately aid in the diagnosis of vestibular disorders.
Determine levels of catastrophizing in patients with vestibular disorders and prospectively evaluate their relationship with patient-reported outcome measures.
Dizziness is a common medical symptom that is frequently misdiagnosed. While virtual patient (VP) education has been shown to improve diagnostic accuracy for dizziness as assessed by VPs, trainee performance has not been assessed on human subjects. The study aimed to assess whether internal medicine (IM) interns after training on a VP-based dizziness curriculum using a deliberate practice framework would demonstrate improved clinical reasoning when assessed in an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE).
This is an updated version of a Cochrane Review last updated in 2020. Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder, affecting 0.5% to 1% of the population. In nearly 30% of cases, epilepsy is resistant to currently available drugs. Pharmacological treatment remains the first choice to control epilepsy. Lamotrigine is a second-generation antiseizure medication. When used as an add-on (in combination with other antiseizure medications), lamotrigine can reduce seizures, but with some adverse effects.
COVID-19 is primarily classified as a respiratory disorder; however, various neurological symptoms have been reported in COVID-19 patients. Neurological manifestations may be the initial signs of COVID-19 and can develop in patients of different age groups and with or without underlying disease. COVID-19 causes a broad range of complications in the central nervous system. These include headaches, altered mental status, dizziness, seizures, cerebrovascular events, encephalitis, and other encephalopathies. Moreover, a broad spectrum of peripheral nervous system symptoms such as olfactory and gustatory dysfunctions, neuropathy, visual impairments, neuralgia, cranial nerves palsy, and muscle involvement could manifest as symptoms. Despite various efforts, the exact pathogenesis of the COVID-19 neurological complications has not been clarified yet. Moreover, the reason for the development of neurological manifestation in only some COVID-19 patients has not been determined. This review focuses on the different neurological symptoms associated with COVID-19 and the possible pathological mechanisms hoping to provide new insights for diagnosis, therapies, or other forms of intervention.
Ocular flutter (OF) is a rare oculomotor syndrome. The most common etiologies are paraneoplastic, postinfectious and toxic-metabolic. However post-vaccinal etiology was rarely reported in OF. Here, we reported a post-vaccinal clinical syndrome characterized by OF-myoclonus and ataxia associated with oligoclonal bands (OCBs). A 60-year-old male who presented with dizziness, unsteady gait, involuntary movements, involuntary conjugate eye oscillations and extremity jerks that started 3 days after the second dose of mRNA BNT162b2 Covid-19 vaccine. Routine biochemical and serological analysis were within normal limits. No pathological finding was detected in brain MRI. Paraneoplastic and autoimmune encephalitis tests were unremarkable in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Oligoclonal bands were positive in CSF. This is the first description of the relationship between vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 and the clinical syndrome of OF, Myoclonus and Ataxia (OFMAS). Humoral immune mechanisms seem to play an important role in OFMAS. Presence of OCBs in CSF may also be associated with this condition.
Vestibular hypofunction is associated with dizziness, imbalance, and blurred vision with head movement. Vestibular rehabilitation is the gold standard recommendation to decrease symptoms and improve postural stability. The Clinical Practice Guidelines for vestibular hypofunction suggest home exercises 3-5 times daily, but patient adherence is a problem, with compliance rates often below 50%.
Vanillin is a flavouring agent that is prohibited for use in infant food products with ages lower than 6 months. Excessive vanillin usage could lead to eating disorders, nausea, headache, and vomiting. Therefore, it is essential to control the contents of vanillin in food samples, especially in infant formula. Here, we developed a highly sensitive nanosensor for vanillin based on using green synthesized highly fluorescent (QY = 29.5%) N-doped carbon quantum dots (N-CQDs) as a turn-off fluorescent nanoprobe. The N-doped CQDs synthesis was adopted using citrus bulb squeeze extract and the commonly used fertilizer, urea, as substrates. After mixing with vanillin, the fluorescence of the N-CQDs was largely quenched in a vanillin concentration-dependent manner. The sensing conditions were optimized by quality-by-design using a two-level full factorial design (2<sup>2</sup> FFD). The N-doped CQDs could detect vanillin in the range 0.1-12.0 μg/ml with a limit of detection of 0.013 μg/ml. Next, a smartphone imaging-based assay combined with a UV chamber was adopted and applied for vanillin determination. This simple detection technique showed sensitivity similar to that of the conventional fluorimetric method. Both conventional and smartphone-based methods were successfully applied for the determination of vanillin in infant milk formula and biscuits and could detect real vanillin concentrations in the analyzed samples with high % recoveries (94.5% to 105.5%). At last, the biocompatibility of the newly synthesized N-CQDs was tested, and it was found to be an excellent candidate for cancer cell imaging.
Orofacial function is believed to influence an individual's diet. knowledge on appetite and enjoyment of eating in orofacially impaired individuals is scarce.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a human pathogen naturally present in wild rodents. In addition, LCMV is routinely used in immunology research as a model of viral infection in mice. The Armstrong common laboratory strain and the Clone-13 variant induce acute and chronic infections in mice, respectively. The frequent use of this virus in laboratory settings is associated with a risk of human infection for laboratory personnel. In contrast to LCMV Clone-13, few human laboratory infections with LCMV Armstrong have been reported, leading to a poor understanding of symptoms related to infection with this specific LCMV strain.
Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block has been utilized to alleviate pain following laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). However, the optimal timing of administration remains uncertain. This study aimed to compare the efficacy of pre-operative and postoperative TAP blocks as analgesic options after LC.
Imaradenant is a novel potent and selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist that is hypothesized to reduce immune suppression in the tumor microenvironment. This phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study evaluated the safety, pharmacokinetics, and anti-tumor activity of imaradenant.
Different studies using Aprepitant, a NK1R antagonist currently used as a clinical drug for treating chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting, have demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of NK1R effectively reduces the growth of several tumor types such as neuroblastoma (NB). In a previous work, we demonstrated that a series of carbohydrate-based Aprepitant analogs, derived from either d-galactose or l-arabinose, have shown high affinity and NK1R antagonistic activity with a broad-spectrum anticancer activity and an important selectivity. In this new study, we explore the selective cytotoxic effects of these derivatives for the treatment of NB. Furthermore, we describe the design and stereoselective synthesis of a new generation of d-glucose derivatives as Aprepitant analogs, supported by docking studies. This approach showed that most of our carbohydrate-based analogs are significantly more selective than Aprepitant. The galactosyl derivative 2α, has demonstrated a marked in vitro selective cytotoxic activity against NB, with IC<sub>50</sub> values in the same range as those of Aprepitant and its prodrug Fosaprepitant. Interestingly, the derivative 2α has shown similar apoptotic effect to that of Aprepitant. Moreover, we can select the glucosyl amino derivative 10α as an interesting hit exhibiting higher in vitro cytotoxic activity against NB than Aprepitant, being 1.2 times more selective.
Postoperative ileus (POI) is a complication that may occur after abdominal or non-abdominal surgery. Intravenous dexmedetomidine has been reported to accelerate postoperative gastrointestinal function recovery; however, updated evidence is required to confirm its robustness.
Paediatric male circumcision is a painful surgical procedure, which is usually carried out under general anaesthesia. Regional analgesic techniques, including dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) and caudal nerve block (CNB), are superior to opioid and non-opioid systemic analgesia for postoperative pain control after circumcision.
Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) is a novel neuromodulation application for vagal afferent stimulation. Owing to its non-invasive nature, taVNS is a potent therapeutic tool for a diverse array of diseases and disorders that ail us. Herein, we investigated taVNS-induced effects on neural activity of participants during visually induced motion sickness. 64-channel electroencephalography (EEG) recordings were obtained from 15 healthy participants in a randomized, within-subjects, cross-over design during sham and taVNS conditions. To assess motion sickness severity, we used the motion sickness assessment questionnaire (MSAQ). We observed that taVNS attenuated theta (4-8 Hz) brain activity in the right frontal, right parietal and occipital cortices when compared to sham condition. The total MSAQ scores, and central, peripheral and sopite MSAQ categorical scores were significantly lower after taVNS compared to sham. These findings reveal for the first time the potential therapeutic role of taVNS toward counter-motion sickness, and suggest that taVNS may be reliable in alleviating symptoms of motion sickness in real-time, non-pharmacologically.Clinical relevance- This suggests taVNS potential to offset motion sickness-induced nausea; which may be of translational value to counter e.g., chemotherapy-induced nausea.
Analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) can reveal a range of useful information regarding the dynamics of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). It is considered a robust and reliable tool to understand even some subtle changes in ANS activity. Here, we study the "hidden" characteristic changes in HRV during visually induced motion sickness; using nonlinear analytical methods, supplemented by conventional time- and frequency-domain analyses. We computed HRV from electrocardiograms (ECG) of 14 healthy participants measured at baseline and during nausea. Primarily hypothesizing evident differences in measures of physiologic complexity (SampEn; sample entropy, FuzzyEn; fuzzy entropy), chaos (LLE; largest Lyapunov exponent) and Poincaré/Lorenz (CSI; cardiac sympathetic activity, CVI; cardiac vagal index) between the two states. We found that during nausea, participants showed a markedly higher degree of regularity (SampEn, p = 0.0275; FuzzyEn, p = 0.0006), with a less chaotic ANS response (LLE, p = 0.0004). CSI significantly increased during nausea compared to baseline (p = 0.0005), whereas CVI did not appear to be statistically different between the two states (p = 0.182). Our findings suggest that motion sickness-induced ANS perturbations may be quantifiable via nonlinear HRV indices. These findings have implications for understanding the malaise of motion sickness and in turn, aid development of therapeutic interventions to relieve motion sickness symptoms.Clinical relevance- The study suggests potential indices of physiologic complexity and chaos that may be useful in monitoring motion sickness during clinical studies.
